Epidemic
A simple model of epidemic dynamics. We define individual agents with different disease states. The progression of disease moves from succeptible to exposed to infectious (either symptomatic or asymptomatic) to some outcome state. Agents can transmit infection to their immediate neighbors.

For some background on the general approach, see Joshua M. Epstein. "Generative Social Science". 2006. Princeton. 

Copyright 2009, Miles Parker. Released under Eclipse Public License. All uses should be attributed.

Parameters
Epidemic	Individual Count	The number of individuals to create.	int	1500
Epidemic	Initial Infection Probability	The probability that any given individual will be infected at the beginning of the model run. For example, if this value is .15, and their are 100 individuals in the model, roughly 15 of those individuals will be infected at time 0.	double	.05
Epidemic	Min Contact Transmission Probability	The minimum probability that proximity to a single neighbor for a single period will result in transmission of infection. At the start of each model run, each individual is assigned a contact transmission probability between the minimum and maximum value. For example, if this value was .08 and the maximum value was 0.12 a given individual could have any value between those two, but the average transmission probability would be around .1. If minium and maximum values are the same, then all individuals will have the same chance of passing along infection to a given neighbor. This value must be between 0.0 and 1.0 and less than or equal to Max Contact transmission Probability.	double	.08
Epidemic	Max Contact Transmission Probability	The maximum probability that proximity to a single neighbor for a single period will result in transmission of infection. See Min Contact Probability for more information. Must be a value between 0.0 and 1.0 and greater or equal to Min Contact Transmission Probability.	double	.16
Epidemic	Case Mortality Rate	The current probability that death will occur for a given individual as a result of infection. Some number between 0.0 and 1.0.	double	.05
Epidemic	Periods per Day		int	24
Epidemic	Min Period Exposure	The minimum amount of time from initial exposure to infectious asymptomatic or symptomatic state. 0 or greater.	int	24
Epidemic	Max Period Exposure	Maximum time from initial exposure to infectious asymptomatic or symptomatic state. 0 or greater.	int	72
Epidemic	Min Period Asymptom Infection	Maximum time spent infected without showing symptoms. 0 or greater.	int	24
Epidemic	Max Period Asymptom Infection	Maximum time spent infected without showing symptoms. May be zero!	int	96
Epidemic	Min Period Symptom Infection	Minimum time spent infected with obvious symptoms. 0 or greater.	int	24
Epidemic	Max Period Symptom Infection	Maximum time spent infected with obvious symptoms. 1 or greater.	int	168
Epidemic	Movement Probability	The chance that an agent will move within a given period. May be any value between 0.0 and 1.0.	double	.5
Agents
Individual	
    

Attributes
Agent	Name	Description Type	Default Value
Individual	Status		StatusEnum	Susceptible
Individual	Exposure End Period		int	
Individual	Asymptomatic End Period		int	
Individual	Outcome Period		int	
Individual	Contact Transmission Probability		double	
    

Activities
Agent	Name	Description
        
Individual	Initialize Location	Initialize Location Initialization. Executed once at the beginning of each model run.
Individual	Movement	Movement Rule. Executed every period.
Individual	Initialize State	Initialize State Initialization. Executed once at the beginning of each model run.
Individual	Transmission	Transmission Rule. Executed every period.
Individual	Progression	Progression Rule. Executed every period.
Individual	Exposure	Watch for changes in Status.
    

Spaces
    
Name	Description	Type
City		2-Dimensional Grid
Generated by metaabm system: Jun 25, 2011 6:16:49 PM PDT.
    